# [Wazuh](https://tryhackme.com/r/room/wazuhct)
Author: Nayanjyoti Kumar

---
Wazuh is a free, open source and enterprise-ready security monitoring solution for threat detection, integrity monitoring.
---


## Task 1: Introduction

1. When was Wazuh released?
````
2015
````

2. What is the term that Wazuh calls a device that is being monitored for suspicious activity and potential security threats? 
````
agent
````

3. Lastly, what is the term for a device that is responsible for managing these devices?
These people manage employees within a workplace
````
manager
````


## Task 3: Wazuh Agents

1. How many agents does this Wazuh management server manage?  
````
2
````

2. What are the status of the agents managed by this Wazuh management server?
````
Disconnected
````


## Task 4: Wazuh Vulnerability Assessment & Security Events

1. How many "Security Event" alerts have been generated by the agent "AGENT-001"?
**Note**: You will need to make sure that your time range includes the 11th of March 2022
````
196
````


## Task 7: Collecting Windows Logs with Wazuh
1. What is the name of the tool that we can use to monitor system events?
````
Sysmon
````

2. What standard application on Windows do these system events get recorded to?
````
Event Viewer
````


## Task 8: Collecting Linux Logs with Wazuh

1. What is the full file path to the rules located on a Wazuh management server?
````
/var/ossec/ruleset/rules
````

## Task 9: Auditing Commands on Linux with Wazuh

1. What application do we use on Linux to monitor events such as command execution?
````
auditd
````

2. What is the full path & filename for where the aforementioned application stores rules?
````
/etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules
````

## Task 10: Wazuh API
1. What is the name of the standard Linux tool that we can use to make requests to  the Wazuh management server?
````
curl
````

2. What HTTP method would we use to retrieve information for a Wazuh management server API?
````
GET
````

3. What HTTP method would we use to perform an action on a Wazuh management server API?  
````
PUT
````

4. Use the API console to find the Wazuh server's version.
Note: You will need to add the "**v**" prefix to the number for this answer. For example **v**1.2.3
GET /manager/info
````
v4.2.5
````

## Task 11: Generating Reports with Wazuh

1.Analyse the report. What is the name of the agent that has generated the most alerts?
````
agent-001
````
